1) how many events need this (I know there are several, not sure if it is needed for all)

It will be needed for all 3 of the events, and for a similar set of events next academic year.

2) level of interaction required (is it okay for you three to peak in with audio interaction, or should you each be represented by our own image to the physical group? one to many or many to many?)

I would prefer it if we could each be represented by our own image to the physical group, and to be able to see a general image of the whole group. It is significantly less important for us to see the other remote individuals, though that too would be useful.

3) resources available to remote participants (are these all isights in macbooks, mixed model pc webcams, university resource centers, etc.) - sufficient bandwidth is assumed to exist, but streaming video is high demand and there should be assumed net traffic issues over long periods of time and multiple participants.

You are familiar with both the computer setups for Sean and me. Hugh Cayless's is also a Macbook pro. We should assume standard DSL/Cable speeds for each of the connections. All 3 individuals are familiar with the traffic issues that might affect video.

4) skype does do video for the record, I've used it before - not sure it meets your needs: http://www.skype.com/allfeatures/videocall/

I'm familiar with skypes 1-1 video capabilities, but I don't think it can do multiparty video conferencing -- and I don't see anything to that effect on the page you reference. Do you know different?

5) not clear on who is hosting each event - is the event at the MET in their building, or do they take a walk over to ISAW?

All events will need to be hosted at 15 E 84th by ISAW. 

6) I know nothing about second life aside from what I read in William Gibson novels in the late 80s.

This would probably be a pretty clunky solution. I'd rather we start investigating a method for regularly supporting videoconferences at ISAW. Roger's eventually going to want this for seminars and such. And frankly I'd love it if we could allow people to come in remotely for these digital practice seminars. ITS has a page on video conferencing that's all about their facilites: http://www.nyu.edu/its/videoconferencing/ but I note that some schools have them (they're listed there) and it's basically polycom IP units with other add-ons (or so it appears). Ideally, I think we should move toward having this sort of capability in ISAW (preferably one that could support connection from PC and Mac-based clients). Should I start inquiries through my contact Jennifer Vinopal in the Visual Studio at Bobst, or do you want to go through your channels?