Gentlemen:

Notionally, here's what I'd like to try to do this spring if we can:

3 events, notionally one in February, one in March and one in April (but see possible 4th, below). The  April one would be the &quot;archaeological data&quot; one below in order to catch folks before they go to the field. The order of the others would depend on speakers' schedules.


1. Semantic web, the museums and scholars or some such
Koven J. Smith and/or Don Undeen, Metropolitan Museum of Art
Background: http://horothesia.blogspot.com/2009/01/semantic-web-scholarly-resources-for.html
Good tie-in with Concordia. And they're local. And they might help us get better tied into the SemWeb community in NYC, q.v. http://swnyc.org
Smith is adjunct prof at NYU, btw


2. China Historical GIS, Africa Map and other geohistorical projects
Peter Bol, Mike McCormick and/or minions from Harvard


3. Archeo data fest
Kansa and Heath to speak publicly on &quot;putting archaeological data on the web&quot; or some such
pre-or-post-day by-invitation workshop on databases to support archaeological excavations and publication, participants:
Amheida team, Kansa, Heath, Carraher, Thorny Staples, Watkinson, Jeff Becker (Boston University, Gabbii excavations), John Muccigrosso (Drew University; excavations at Vicus ad Martis Tudertium on the Via Flaminia near Todi in Umbria), Baha Yildirim (NYU Aphrodisias excavations). These latter three are all working on (or worrying about working on) database support for their efforts. Some have big legacy situations (Yildirim), whereas others are just starting but want to go digital in a serious way (Becker). Maybe also Keith Kintigh at Arizona State who is running an archaeological data repository project for archaeoinformatics, with some exploratory funding from Mellon.

Scary that there are no women outside the Amheida team.


We could also conceivably add another talk (or replace one of these), by bringing in someone from the Perseus team at Tufts. In fact, now that I think of it, it might be very cool to get Monica Berti (who has just taken up a visiting post at Tufts) in to talk about the &quot;Ancient Library of Alexandria&quot; Project: http://www.monicaberti.it/en/the-project/the-ala-project.html  Met her (after various online exchanges) in Philadelphia.


(How) shall we proceed? Do I need to get together some cost estimates on travel and accommodations? Start working date availability?

Best,
Tom