emailing draft to suzan and tom for approval, see below

***

ISAW IT Services

1) Purchase of new computers and software.

IT can advise you on what resources the institute has available and if your needs require the purchase of additional software or equipment.  IT does not control budget matters and cannot authorize any purchases, we solely fill an advisory position in the acquisition process.  Once a purchase has been made IT will assist in helping staff install and configure new equipment and software.

2) Maintenance of computers and software.

IT is responsible for keeping all software and system patches up to date.  Malfunctioning hardware is also within the purview of IT.  Cleaning keyboards, mice, and monitors is not the job of IT - if a user feels they have made their computer dirty they should clean it.  IT will offer advice on proper ways to clean equipment but the cleanliness of one's workspace is their responsibility.

3) Software support.

IT will help resolve any issues in the functioning of your desktop software.  We will also assist in general inquiries or problems.  With the exception of web-based institute resources such as the wiki, it is the responsibility of the user to be proficient in the operation of their software.  Many classes are offered downtown for those who need additional training and IT can also recommend books on a number of topics.

4) Infrastructure and Telecom.

IT will assist in any connection problems you may have including both the wired LAN and the wireless network.  IT is also the liaison to NYU Telecom service requests.  Other problems in the building such as lighting or electrical problems should be addressed to the building manager.

5) Mobile devices.

IT is also the liaison to NYU's mobile (Blackberry) services, requests for service should be made to ISAW IT.  Issues that can be resolved locally (ie software syncing, etc) will be handled as needed and issues outside of ISAW control (billing, etc) will be forwarded to the appropriate parties.

6) Help desk.

All requests should be submitted to the help desk in order to be responded to in the most efficient and prompt manner possible.