MAIN PAGE http://www.amheida.org/index.php?content=student_info

First paragraph:
NYU's spring semester abroad program, Archaeology and History in Egypt, consists of three courses plus an Independent Project module. The first third of the program is an intensive course entitled The Oases of Egypt, which deals with the archaeology, history, and environment of the four main Egyptian oases, and incorporates field trips to sites in the Dakhleh and Kharga Oases. This course lasts for three and a half weeks. It is essentially directed at the process of integrating archaeological discovery with textual evidence and environmental information.
SUBSTITUTE
NYU's spring semester abroad program, Archaeology and History in Egypt, consists of three courses plus an Independent Project module. The first third of the program is an intensive seminar entitled The Oases of Egypt, which deals with the archaeology, history, and environment of the four main Egyptian oases, and incorporates field trips to sites in the Dakhleh and Kharga Oases. This course lasts for three and a half weeks. It is essentially directed at the process of integrating archaeological discovery with textual evidence and environmental information.  A Colloquial Arabic class is normally also taken in January, though not for credit.  This aspect of the program is meant to enhance student autonomy and to contribute to the enjoyment of living in Egypt.

POP UP FOR INDEPENDENT PROJECT
For your independent project, you will produce original research on some aspect of the material culture so far unearthed at Amheida. You may choose to specialize in a type of artifact (pottery, flints, coins, etc.) or may choose to analyze specific contexts in depth. Research at Dakhleh will be facilitated by our on-line database, by collections stored on site, and by the dig house library. What you produce will be archived in the library for the use of all other archaeologists who work at the site.

SUBSTITUTE
For the independent project, you are encouraged to write on a topic that integrates your own interests with material encountered in the oases.  Alternatively, you may decide to conduct original research on some aspect of the material culture so far unearthed at Amheida. You may choose to specialize in a type of artifact (pottery, flints, coins, etc.) or to analyze specific contexts in depth. If you choose this route, what you produce will be archived in the library for the use of all other archaeologists who work at the site.  Research at Dakhleh will be facilitated by our on-line database, by collections stored on site, and by the dig house library. 

POP UP FOR FIELD WORK IN EGYPT
This intensive course is largely field-based, with additional time spent processing, recording, and analyzing materials at the excavation house. As students, you will be involved in almost every aspect of the archaeological field process. Specialists will instruct you in survey techniques, in the drafting of archaeological plans, and in the interpretation of ceramics and other highly indicative artifacts. As the bulk of excavation in Egypt is undertaken by local workmen, you will receive training as a site supervisor (with all of the necessary background in archaeological methodology that this entails). The careful records, maps, sketches, and photographs that you will produce in the course of documenting your work at Amheida will be incorporated into the excavation's archives. 
Evaluation: Your grade will be based on the quality of the records you keep (50%) and on the reports your supervisors give on your work in the field and back at the excavation house.

SUBSTITUTE:
This intensive course is largely field-based, with additional time spent processing, recording, and analyzing materials at the excavation house. As students, you will be involved in almost every aspect of the archaeological field process. Specialists will instruct you in survey techniques, in the drafting of archaeological plans, and in the interpretation of ceramics and other highly indicative artifacts. As the bulk of excavation in Egypt is undertaken by local workmen, you will receive training as a site supervisor (with all of the necessary background in archaeological methodology that this entails). The careful records, maps, sketches, and photographs that you will produce in the course of documenting your work at Amheida will be incorporated into the excavation's archives. 
It should be noted that carrying out excavations in Egypt is dependent on the timely granting of the annual permit by the Supreme Council of Antiquities and (in the case of excavations in the Western Desert) of security clearance by the Egyptian military. The first of these has so far been granted every year in time for our planned season. The security clearance, however, came very late in 2009 and substantially shortened our season, along with those of numerous other excavations. We do not anticipate a recurrence of this problem, the reasons for which are unknown and not specifically related to our project, but it is impossible to guarantee that such delays will not occur in future seasons. If they do, lectures, additional field trips, ceramic analysis, and other archaeological exercises will be substituted for part of the excavation time, and the Nile Valley seminar may be extended to incorporate additional sites and scope.

Evaluation: Your grade will be based on the quality of the records you keep (50%) and on the reports your supervisors give on your work in the field and back at the excavation house.

LIVING CONDITIONS &amp; TRAVEL http://www.amheida.org/index.php?content=student_living

First paragraph
We will spend January and February of 2009 with Dakhleh Oasis as our base.

SUBSTITUTE: 
We will spend January and February with Dakhleh Oasis as our base.

UNDER MONEY AND COSTS
The cost of life in Egypt is, from an American point of view, fairly inexpensive. While in the Oasis, you will likely spend very little for two simple reasons: 1) you are provided with all the essentials of housing, materials, food, transportation, etc.; and 2) there is really surprisingly little to buy. Students will likely go into town on occasion to use an internet cafe or buy cookies (the famed &quot;Boreos&quot;) or a schawarma. If you are of drinking age and think that you might like to escape to town on the eve of a day off for a beer at one of the hotels, factor that into your calculations. Given the fact that there are no ATMs in Dakhleh and that money can be difficult to obtain through other means, however, students should be sure to bring enough to cover any unanticipated splurges at the local Bedouin rug shop or evenings out. 

SUBSTITUTE
The cost of life in Egypt is, from an American point of view, fairly inexpensive. While in the Oasis, you will likely spend very little for two simple reasons: 1) you are provided with all the essentials of housing, materials, food, transportation, etc.; and 2) there is really surprisingly little to buy. Students will likely go into town on occasion to visit a cafe or buy treats (the famed &quot;Boreo&quot; cookies, for example). If you are of drinking age and think that you might like to escape to town on the eve of a day off for a beer at one of the hotels, factor that into your calculations. There is currently one ATM in Dakhleh, which works most of the time.  To be safe, students should bring enough money to cover any unanticipated splurges at the local Bedouin rug shop or evenings out.

UNDER TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Computers and Telecommunications
Many students find having their own laptop useful for work, for emails (if wireless enabled) and for entertainment, but is not necessary to bring a laptop with you. When it comes to how you are going to communicate with home, there are several options. While in Dakhleh, there are computers with internet access at the excavation house, and you can connect on your own laptop wirelessly in some areas of the house. You can also go during your free time into Mut to an internet cafe.

SUBSTITUTE:

Students have found having their own laptop extremely useful for work, for emails (if wireless enabled), and for entertainment. When it comes to how you are going to communicate with home, there are several options. While in Dakhleh, there are computers with internet access at the excavation house, and you can connect on your own laptop wirelessly in some areas of the house.  Due to the necessity of conserving bandwidth for communal use, Skyping and instant messaging at the house will only be permitted after 10 PM. You can, however, go during your free time into Mut to an internet caf&#65533; and skpe at your convenience.

UNDER ACADEMIC RESOURCES
http://www.amheida.org/index.php?content=student_resources

Services in Cairo from ARCE and American University in Cairo.
In Cairo, library support for the independent projects will be provided by the American Research Center in Egypt (ARCE), an independent organization of which New York University is an institutional member, and by the American University in Cairo (AUC), which provides reading-only library cards for all students. ARCE is located close to the center of Cairo, just south of the area of the Egyptian Museum. As of spring, 2008, AUC was located in the same area, but it is planning to remove to a suburban location later in 2008.
ARCE will also provide limited access to computer equipment and photocopying; its equipment and service provisions change from year to year, and you will be given more detailed information at the time.

SUBSITUTE
In Cairo, library support for the independent projects will be provided by the American Research Center in Egypt (ARCE), an independent organization of which New York University is an institutional member, and by the American University in Cairo (AUC), which provides reading-only library cards for all students. ARCE is located close to the center of Cairo, while AUC is located on a surburban campus.
ARCE will also provide limited access to computer equipment and photocopying; its equipment and service provisions change from year to year, and you will be given more detailed information at the time.

FORMER STUDENTS
http://www.amheida.org/index.php?content=student_former
We should add:  (Elizabeth, check to make sure the schools are correct)
Kayla Altland (Cornell University)
Aaron Bacon (University of New Hampshire)
Annie Danis (Barnard College)
Sarah Farnsworth (Pitzer College)
Iris Fernandez (Barnard College)
Kyera Giannini (University of Michigan)
Megan Holland (Barnard College)
Aislinn Lowry (Illinois Wesleyan University)
Nathaniel Nagy (Columbia University)
Matthews Vattamala (Columbia University)
Juan Vidal (University of Cinncinati)
Andrew Ward (Columbia University)