Please create a link to a page for Courses from the 'Graduate Program' page (http://www.nyu.edu/isaw/graduateprogram.htm) and add the following copy:

FALL 2009

Beate Pongratz-Leisten
Globalization of Knowledge in the Multilingual and Multi-ethnic Milieu of the Ancient Near East
Time: Tuesdays, 2-4
Dates:
September 15
September 29
October 13
October 27
November 10
December 1
December 15

Cuneiform culture, originally invented in Sumer, dominated the entire region of the ancient Near East despite local, political, and cultural differences and despite the fact that in many cultures Sumerian or Akkadian did not represent the spoken language. Throughout three thousand years of history, the body of educational and scholarly texts remained more or less uniform. The professionalism reflected in the textual corpora speaks in favor of a virtual community of intellectuals. Scribes and scholars viewed themselves as an established community of users of a shared traditional knowledge which was acquired by means of a common curriculum. Owing to their control of information and knowledge these scholars played an essential role among the elites of society. The same is true for craftsmen who, in antiquity, showed great mobility, and who, because of their skills, were among the first to be deported during times of war.
The seminar will explore the nature of knowledge as transmitted in the cuneiform tradition, the relationship between science and religion, the carriers of knowledge, i.e. the communities of scholars and scribes; libraries and the findspots of the scholarly material and what these tell us about scribal practices, training, and competences in regions that were distant from Mesopotamia. These investigations will serve to detect the human agency behind the texts and material culture and the relationship between texts, objects and persons. The goal is to obtain a better grasp of the cultural mechanisms and strategies of the spread of knowledge in antiquity. 



Alexander Jones
The Exact Sciences in Antiquity 
Time:  Wednesday 2-4
Dates:
September 30
October 7
October 21
November 4 
November 18
December 2
December 9 


Roger Bagnall
Society, Economy, and Culture in Late Antiquity 
Time: Thursdays 10-12 
Dates:
September 10 
October 1
October 8
November 5
November 12
December 2
December 10
December 17 

Presentation of current research in the society, economy, and culture of the Late Antique world, including the entire Roman world and the Near and Middle East.