To add, I'm sending you the program via email to add as a downloadable pdf. Thanks and hope your foot is feeling better!

May 5, 2011: Colloquium
Egyptian Liturgical Papyri in Ptolemaic and Roman Egypt
2nd floor Seminar Room
10:15am-6:30pm
Organized by Jacco Dieleman, Visiting Research Scholar, ISAW

Seating is limited and reservations are required. Please RSVP to isaw@nyu.edu

This one-day colloquium investigates the nature and function of Egyptian liturgical papyri of Ptolemaic and Roman date. In this period, certain individuals were buried with one or several papyrus scrolls containing a selection of temple liturgies. Although originally conceived for use in the cult of Osiris, these liturgies had been adopted and adapted for private funerary use. Whereas several liturgies have been published individually in synoptic text editions, the manuscripts themselves have never been studied as a group. In fact, the most important and extensive manuscripts remain unpublished. An important, innovative aspect of late dynastic Egyptian funerary culture thus remains unexamined. By bringing together an international group of scholars who are currently preparing text editions of these manuscripts, we hope to gain insight in the principles governing the selection and sequencing of the liturgies on the various manuscripts. The colloquium will thus not only shine light on a large yet often neglected text corpus, but also provide an opportunity to explore the intersection of Egyptian temple cult and private funerary practices in the period from the fourth century BCE to the first century CE. It extends an invitation to reflect on the conditions and motivations that sparked a shift in the types and number of texts deposited with the deceased in the tomb in Ptolemaic and Roman Egypt.

Speakers:
Burkhard Backes (University of Tuebingen)
Yekaterina Barbash (Brooklyn Museum)
Martin Bommas (University of Birmingham)
Jacco Dieleman (ISAW)
Frank Feder (Altaegyptisches Woerterburch, Berlin)
Sandrine Vuilleumier (University of Geneva)

Full program and abstracts available here