<p>Over the past year or so, much of my time has been spent in overhauling the iMac's when a computer has failed. Normally this happens at the most inopportune time as life's joke on myself I'd have to assume. This severely derails work on existing projects or some other task with which I'm involved with at ISAW, its also frustrating and utterly demoralizing. The amount of man hours spent in changing track, breaking down, retooling and building up new systems is normally within the range of 5-8 hours per incident. In 2011, we spent between 40-60 hours in rebuild time not including the time changing back track, gearing up and continuing on with original tasks, context switching as well as waiting for parts to come in. The amount of work cycles spent here if calculated could easily push into 3-4 weeks of time or between 105-140 hours of my time directly at ISAW.</p>
<p>Having an assistant helps but our responses here can greatly be lowered this year I feel with the same amount of monetary investment upfront on the 4 iMac's sitting idle in RM 605/606. As stands, if we replace the hard drives on each machine and max out the memory to about 4GB per machine. We will be ready to easily swap any persons machine at any given time in roughly an hour or two max. This rapid response comes directly from our decision to concentrate backups to each person individually. So, without the overhead cost of context switching or anything else if we factor in the 6 incidents or so last year we are looking at 12 hours max with zero associated cost for 2012. Off-the-cuff, we are looking at between a 88%-90% savings in work effort or a month of my time that could be applied more directly to some other important goal.</p>
<p>I'd like to outline the specifics of this overhaul with exacts on the macs configuration and what they each would exactly need and what time investment it would take to actually complete the work but would like to hear if this sounds rational before I invest tomorrow morning on it.</p>