Hi Tom:
This is a new faculty posting for a joint position we're doing with the Art History dept. 

Assistant Professor of Early Chinese Art and Archaeology
Institute for the Study of the Ancient World and Department of Art History 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Arts and Science

The Institute for the Study of the Ancient World and the Department of Art History in the Faculty of Arts and Science at New York University invite scholars of early Chinese art and archaeology, preferably in the Bronze Age, to apply for a joint faculty position at the rank of Assistant Professor (tenure track). The position will begin September 1, 2011, pending administrative and budgetary approval. We seek a scholar whose research analyzes ancient artifacts in their broader historical context with innovative perspectives. The candidate will work with graduate students in the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, leading research seminars and individual tutorials. The candidate will also teach undergraduate students in the Department of Art History, including an introductory survey of East Asian art and a more advanced course in his or her area of specialization; and will supervise undergraduate senior honors theses and independent studies. The candidate must have completed a Ph. D. in art history, archaeology, or East Asian studies by January 2011.  

Application deadline is December 1, 2010.  Please submit a detailed letter of application, curriculum vitae, and list of three references through the NYU online application system at www.nyuopsearch.com/applicants/Central?quickFind=50686. NYU is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

Questions should be directed to Kathryn Lawson, Academic Program Coordinator, at kathryn.lawson@nyu.edu or 212-992-7860.


Also, here is the abstract for Mathieu Ossendrijver's lecture for the events page:

Cuneiform tablets from the Late Babylonian period (450 BC - 100 AD) contain the first written evidence of mathematical astronomy, in the form of astronomical tables with computed times, positions, and other data for the Moon and the planets, and procedure texts
with the corresponding instructions. In this presentation I explore the activities of the astronomers at the Resh temple in Seleucid Uruk, who, as participants of a network of interacting scholars, wrote not only astronomical tablets but also other scholarly texts and non-scholarly documents. By compiling information from the tablets, the scribal biographies and scholarly network of the astronomers can be partly reconstructed. The results raise interesting questions about the status of the Resh library.