VIA EMAIL:


Ok Tom, we need to get a hold on this, as this will be the last email I respond to in this regard.

In this email, Diane is noting that I assured Kate before George arrived that everything was setup and I had communicated directly with George. On June 28th Kathryn sent me an email asking if he had been entered into the system. I had brief conversation with Kathryn and told her I'd do it before hand but didn't want to go through the process that day.

On June 29th I added George Hatke geh2@nyu.edu to our systems including sending him an automatic link for setup on the website, including his copier codes, etc. I've never met George Hatke and as we are still in the process of revamping the systems he'd obviously have to learn how to use them. Including but not limited to getting his machine setup on the network. Of course, all the rest was done.

Approximately 23 hours ago at 12:09 PM Kathryn sent me an email asking me to resend George Hatke the email with the IT info. I responded with I just resent this again to geh2@nyu.edu. Which is the standard setup copy for the website etc.

&quot;I have a copy of the email sent to George yesterday that only gives a link to go into the ISAW webpage to set up a  password with very minimal information and no contact info (it is from ISAW Administrator). Since Kate was not copied on the email, it was only when George in utter frustration came to see her this morning, that she learned of this.&quot;

Diane goes on to note:

&quot;Kate also doesn't know what George is doing on this website, so she's unable to provide any support or guidance as to what he should expect. For example, are his copier codes on this website?&quot;

Again, On Jun 29th.. Approximately 1 week ago. I sent this email:

He's in.

George Hatke
geh2@nyu.edu - Registered for http://isaw.nyu.edu (he should have received instructions in email)
Installed on 4th and 6th Floor printer/copier user code is 33641

How Diane came to this conclusion I am simply not aware, but as you can see it's a bit a waste of my time isn't it?

&quot;Furthermore, George's brand new computer is not working and he is on his way back to the Computer Store to see what's wrong, but he has no wireless or ethernet access information to be functional within ISAW.&quot;

Well as we have been assured that netid's have been granted for all of these incoming scholars. His being geh2; it would seem to me that at the very least he has wireless access. As there has never been a restriction from users utilizing their netid for access here at ISAW. That aside as has previously been noted I have never met George Hatke; or the machine he plans to plug into the network here. So, of course, it's not added to the wired network.

To my knowledge, when I'm finished with setting up the processes for which the new system will be applicable. I can then proceed to let Kathryn know exactly what needs to happen and what information she can provide. As it stands, I am not done and have to spend time crafting emails like this. It would seem to be folly to tell her anything at this point. Of course, this is also the last email I'm going to write on the subject

In the future, i'd ask all parties to converse in an open and useful manner before sending me an email as such again. Sans that due to the nature of this email and the confusion in regards to it, please from now on, contact Tom directly.

Thanks!