Hi Tom/Sean,
Here is the new copy for the VRS page (http://www.nyu.edu/isaw/scholars.htm), although the original copy this will replace can be found at (http://www.nyu.edu/isaw/working-program.htm). The scholars tab of the website has the VRS bios right now, but I'd like to have the current application information be the focus now, with a link from that page to the current bios. I also have a pdf application form that needs to be attached to the page in the appropriate place in the copy. (and possibly it's own link in a header or subtext of the tab?). Should I just email it to one of you? This needs to go up ASAP as we need to post the job ads and I don't want to do that before I know everything is up and available. Thanks!


Visiting Research Scholars Program

We are now accepting applications for 2010-2011. The deadline for submissions is December 14, 2009. Please see the application instructions below for details.

Each year the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World makes about 9 appointments of visiting research scholars. For a directory of current visiting research scholars (2009-10), click here.

ISAW's scope embraces research and graduate education in the history, archaeology, and culture of the entire Old World from late prehistoric times to the eighth century AD, including Asia and Africa. Projects of a theoretical or comparative nature relevant to this domain are also welcome. Academic visitors at ISAW should be individuals of scholarly distinction or promise in any relevant field of ancient studies who will benefit from the stimulation of working in an environment with colleagues in other disciplines. Applicants with a history of interdisciplinary exchange are particularly welcome. They will be expected to be in residence at the Institute during the period for which they are appointed and to take part in the intellectual life of the community.

Visiting research scholars at ISAW have access to the Institute's own library, which is in the process of development, as well as to a wide range of other libraries at NYU, the Metropolitan Museum of Art (located a block away), and other institutions in New York City. Scholars are provided with their own workspace. ISAW is prepared to host both individuals coming with their own funding and those needing partial or full support for a semester or year. Those appointed with ISAW funding will normally bear NYU research track ranks and have regular university benefits. Research support is normally a part of funding packages. 

ISAW is prepared to consider not only individual applications for residencies but proposals from small research teams (usually two persons), the members of which are normally based in different institutions. It will also consider applications for years later than 2010-11 in cases where the applicant is interested in organizing an exhibition or a conference at ISAW.

A complete application will include an application form (click here to download), letter of interest, c.v.(including publication list), and a research proposal. Applicants should have their doctorates in hand by the beginning of their period of appointment at ISAW. Students still in doctoral programs are not eligible for appointment under this program. Applications should be sent to Professor Roger S. Bagnall, Director, Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th St., New York, NY 10028. For questions, please contact the Academic Program Coordinator, Kathryn Lawson, at kathryn.lawson@nyu.edu.

Financial support

The Institute aims to ensure that visiting research scholars have financial support approximately equivalent to their current salary, adjusted for the cost of housing in New York City, although only rarely will it be possible to replace the entirety of a senior academic salary. The exact amount will be individually set when grants are offered. Visiting research scholars not currently employed, only partially employed, or working in countries where salary levels are substantially different from those in the United States will have stipends adjusted to provide a total of $60,000. In the case of visitors with partial or full sabbatical leave salaries from their home institutions or other sources, the Institute will either supplement these to provide comparable compensation or may offer a housing allowance. In addition, visitors are provided with research allowances to defray the cost of travel to conferences and other out of pocket research expenses.