Hi Tom, here are the courses for the fall and spring for the course page. Thanks! Kate

Fall 2010

G44.3007.001
Ancient Texts and Documents: Editing a didactic manuscript from Roman Egypt
Profs. Roger Bagnall and Alexander Jones
Tuesdays 2:00-5:00pm

The focus of this seminar will be an unpublished Greek papyrus codex (comprising 13 leaves) from the fourth century of our era containing geometrical and arithmetical problems and model contracts. The manuscript will be studied through high resolution digital images. Our principal object, occupying part of each seminar meeting, will be to constitute a critical text and commentary; thus participants will have in depth exposure to important aspects of paleography, papyrology, codicology, and current research in pedagogy, science, and adminstration in late antiquity. The study of the codex as artifact and text will also serve as a foundation for research presentations that may extend into a broader social and intellectual context.

The editorial portion of each seminar meeting will take up one leaf of the codex, following their presumed order, with time reserved for revising the preceding session's work. Each editorial session will include establishment of the text, translation, and construction of a provisional commentary. Assignment of research presentations and papers will be settled at the beginning of the course according to the interests and competences of the individual participants. Presenters will provide readings and specialized bibliography in advance of their sessions.
Knowledge of ancient Greek is required for this seminar. Permission of the professor(s) required.
roger.bagnall@nyu.edu, alexander.jones@nyu.edu


G44.3009.001
Art, Archaeology and Material Culture in Central Asia: Central Asia and the Mediterranean from the 6th c.BC to the 8th c. AD
Professor Soeren Stark
Thursdays 2:00-5:00pm

The course will inquire into the relations between the Mediterranean and the various steppe and oasis cultures in Central Asia from the Achaemenid period up to the early Middle Ages. These relations are characterized by a broad spectrum of different forms of contact and exchange. Direct contacts were established, for example, by military campaigns, diplomatic exchanges, migrations or colonization. Less direct ways of cultureal intermediation resulted from complex transcontinental trade flows. The course will focus on the consquencess which different forms of communication with the Mediterranean had on Central Asian art and material culture. In doing so topics like urbanism, sacral architecture and religious iconographies, but also aspects of material culture (ceramics, arms, costume) will have to be discussed. A reading knowledge of two of the languages (French, German, Russian) is required. Approval of the professor is required.