Title and abstract for Rubio lecture:

The Earliest Semitic Literature: The Road to Ebla

The discovery of thousands of well-preserved cuneiform tablets dating to the mid-third millennium B.C.E. at Ebla (Tell Mardikh) in northwestern Syria, has revolutionized our knowledge of the history of the Semitic languages and the ancient Near East.  The Ebla corpus includes administrative and chancellery documents, as well as lexical lists, incantations, a royal ritual, and a number of literary compositions. Most of these compositions are written in the local Semitic language, Eblaite.  Both the language of Ebla and its early Semitic literature belong to a cultural continuum that stretched from southern Mesopotamia all the way to northern Syria.   Across this extended scribal landscape, early Semitic and Sumerian traditions underwent various processes of textualization and cross-pollination. Such interactions materialized in a literature whose archaic nature makes it as captivating as it is intellectually challenging. 

and a new event (sending image as well):

April 27: Public Lecture
Speaker: Bi Bo, School of Chinese Studies, Renmin University of China, Beijing
Location: 2nd Floor Lecture Room
Date: Tuesday, April 27
Time: 6:00 p.m.

New Evidence from Dunhuang, China and Central Asia for the Kangju (??): An Enigmatic Power on the Silk Road 

Kangju was a powerful nomadic state or confederacy in Central Asia two thousand years ago. It was the first state in that region to send an embassy to Han China (206 BCE-220 CE), and maintained contact with China for about five hundred years. For this reason, the most important sources of information about Kangju are the Chinese historical texts. Unfortunately, their accounts tend to be short and lack details, so our understanding of Kangju and its relations with ancient China has been rather limited. 
This lecture will focus on some important new inscriptions recently discovered. They will not only help us check how reliable the Chinese historical sources are, but also tell us much more about the Kangju and their contacts with China. 
The first group consists of a dozen wooden slips with Chinese writing found at the Xuanquan site in Dunhuang, China and dated to the late Western Han Dynasty (206 BCE-24 CE). The second group is a set of Sogdian inscriptions from Kultobe in Kazakhstan, deciphered by Prof. N. Sims-Williams. Combining the Chinese historical records with the newly discovered inscriptions, we can contextualize the Kultobe inscriptions, assign a likely date to them, and elucidate the history of Kangju from the first to the fourth century CE (i.e., from the Chinese Han to the Jin Dynasty). 


Thanks!
Kate