Monday, May 9, 2011
Speaker: Maya Muratov, Adelphi University
Location: 2nd floor lecture hall
Time: 6:00pm

A Mount, a Well, a Horse, and a Goddess: Recent Archaeological Investigations on the Temenos of Pantikapaion

By the early 6th century BC several Greek colonies, mostly from the city of Miletos in Asia Minor, were founded on the Northern shores of the Black Sea on both sides of the Kerch Straits, known in antiquity as the Cimmerian Bosporos. Initially politically independent, these colonies were united into a confederacy in the early 5th century BC. Thus the Bosporan Kingdom was created, with a ruling dynasty called Archeanaktidai, who chose Pantikapaion, a Milesian colony, as their capital. Gradually, the neighboring territories with their non-Greek populations became incorporated into this polity and towards the end of the 4th century BC the population of the Kingdom was comprised of Bosporan Greeks, Sindai, Scythians, Meotai as well as Greeks and barbarians from other cities on the Black Sea and the Mediterranean. Throughout the centuries Pantikapaion remained the political, religious, and cultural capital of the Kingdom.
Following a brief overview of archaeological investigations of Pantikapaion from 1945 to 2010, this talk will present staggering new discoveries from the temenos area. These archaeological finds, made during the last three archaeological seasons (2007, 2009, 2010), may prompt a revision of our current understanding of the Greco-Scythian relations in the late 6th-early 5th century BC. 


Abstract for Guenter Dreyer lecture:

Evidence for early writing in a rather advanced stage has been found in predynastic tombs at Abydos dating from about 3200 BC: Ink inscriptions on pottery, small labels (tags) of bone/ivory with incised signs, and some seal impressions. These inscriptions indicate either the origin or the amount of containers (vessels, boxes) holding products such as oil/fat, grain, and woven fabric. At least some of them are readable as phonetic signs (not symbols!) representing sounds (consonants) of the language like our modern writing.

Writing seems to have been invented to serve the requirements of the administration of the growing state, which needed to control and record the delivery and distribution of important commodities.

At first only institutions, localities, or administrative units are mentioned along with numerals.
From c.3000BC (reign of king Narmer), however, dates of deliveries are given by year names (mentioning the most important events of a year) and the quality of products. The titles and names of officials responsible for the delivery are also notated. 

Writing was then also used to indicate ownership on objects and tomb stelae. The first full sentence is known from a seal impression of the late 2nd Dyn.


I\'m also sending you an updated program for the Egyptian liturgical Papyri colloquium in May, and I need the affiliation of Frank Feder to read (Altaegyptisches Woerterbuch/University of Muenster)


Thanks!

Kate