Correspondance with Lorenzo to date:


Hi Tom,
if possible, as I told you, I would like to buy a second monitor and, if possible and not too expensive Indesign as software.
As to the handbook 15 to 17 would be great, and Office should be enough. I will meet Bruno in July and possibly he will come to Turkey for a week or so. Therefore you could decide with him. If you find good offers do not hesitate!
Please leave Autocad aside. I wuold like to discuss with Roger about it, and eventually buy it in a later occasion.
If the costs excede the funds for computers from the faculty, please let me know how much I should add and I will contact Diane and ask her if I can pay it with my start-up money.

Thanks a lot, bye,

Lorenzo


2011/6/14 Tom Elliott 

    Lorenzo:

    I've copied our systems administrator, Christopher Warner, on this email for informational purposes.

    As previously discussed, ISAW provides $1,518 in funds for new faculty computer set-ups. Additional costs must be borne through Research Funds.

    1. NYU presently has a very good deal going with Dell, which would make the following desktop configuration possible for only $890 (comparable in computing power to the Macintosh iMac that is our default model):

    Dell Optiplex 380MT tower with:
     * 3.06 GHz Intel Core2 Duo processor
     * 4 GB RAM
     * 250 GB hard drive
     * 21.5&quot; LCD monitor
     * External backup drive

    We should probably add an addition large hard drive (1 TB) for about $100-200, so that you have plenty of room to store images, etc.

    Does that sound sufficient?

    2. For software, the following sorts of prices obtain based on university licensing. Have I missed any programs that you might need?

    a. Microsoft Office 2010 Professional Win: $65.00
    b. Photoshop Extended CS5 Win: $175.00 = $196.95

    I am looking into the terms of the NYU site license for Autocad. The program is very expensive and we need to figure out what the best solution for the entire institution is. So we'll deal with that separately once I have the additional information.

    3. There are several options for your field computer, ranging from a low-end multimedia machine to a netbook to a high-end laptop. Do you have any preferences with regard to the size of the machine? What sort of software do you need to be able to run on this machine?

    Thanks,
    Tom

    -- 
    Tom Elliott, Ph.D.
    Associate Director for Digital Programs
    Senior Research Scholar
    Institute for the Study of the Ancient World
    New York University
    http://isaw.nyu.edu/people/staff/tom-elliott/

    want to meet?: http://tungle.me/paregorios/